What is BDD?
------------

BDD stands for Behaviour Driven Development. 

BDD is an evolution in the thinking behind Test Driven Development and Acceptance Test Driven Planning

So what is Test Driven Development?
-----------------------------------

Test Driven Development is a good development practice to write automated tests to ensure the application is working well before writing the code. 

BDD is an extension of Test Driven Development where we write specifications describing what the software is expected to do. These specifications are later converted to automated code. 


A Brief History
---------------
Initially BDD was widely adopted in Ruby's world and is known as Cucumber framework. Later, this was adopted by all leading programming languages. 

Some are

.NET => Specflow
JAVA => Cucumber-jvm and Jbehave
Ruby => Cucumber


So what are the terms I want to learn in BDD?

Feature  - A feature is a desired product functionality involving multiple features

example: As a facebook user, In order to keep track of my friends list, I want to manage friends by adding or removing them. 

Scenario - A scenario is a specification with detailed steps, input and data associated with input and the desired output. 

Given I have a valid facebook account
And I login with a valid facebook account
When I search for Tim in my friends list
Then I should be able to see Tim's Photo

Advantages of using BDD?
All Development work can be tracked directly to business requirements/goals
One on One match with requirement and features in the software
Everyone has a shared understanding of the project since the language is common english


The most common adopted standard for expressing a scenario is using Given - When - Then 

Given - This gives the context of the scenario. Also, I can say that this is kind of a test bed/ test set up where the user performs some action before the test starts.

When - This is nothing but the actual action. The action means test steps which are carried out.

Then - This is the expected desired outcome with respect to the action which was taken in the When block. 

An example from the Internet
Given my bank account is in credit, and I made no withdrawals recently,
When I attempt to withdraw an amount less than my card's limit,
Then the withdrawal should complete without errors or warnings

